[Development] Implement PR CI check (#198)
redhat-ai-dev/ai-rolling-demo-gitops: docs/TESTING.md

export KEYCLOAK_BASE_URL="https://<host>"
export KEYCLOAK_REALM="<realm>"
export KEYCLOAK_LOGIN_REALM="<login-realm>"
export KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID="<client-id>"
export KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET="<client-secret>"

# Optional: If you don't have QUAY_DOCKERCONFIGJSON already exported in your private-env
# you can just export a dummy value like the one below
export QUAY_DOCKERCONFIGJSON='{"auths":{"quay.io":{"auth":""}}}'

# Lightspeed inference backend
export VLLM_URL="https://<vllm-host>"
export VLLM_API_KEY="<api-key>"
export VALIDATION_PROVIDER="<provider>"
export VALIDATION_MODEL_NAME="<model>"

# Notebooks
export NOTEBOOKS_QUERY_PROVIDER_ID="<provider-id>"
export NOTEBOOKS_QUERY_MODEL="<model>"

# Lightspeed PostgreSQL
export LIGHTSPEED_POSTGRES_USER="<user>"
export LIGHTSPEED_POSTGRES_PASSWORD="<password>"
export LIGHTSPEED_POSTGRES_DB="<db-name>"

# GitHub App integration
export GITHUB_APP_APP_ID="<app-id>"
export GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID="<client-id>"
export GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET="<client-secret>"
export GITHUB_APP_WEBHOOK_URL="https://<webhook-host>"
export GITHUB_APP_WEBHOOK_SECRET="<webhook-secret>"
export GITHUB_APP_PRIVATE_KEY="<pem-key>"
export GITOPS_GIT_ORG="<github-org>"

> # Optional: The argoCD creds are not required for our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Whil the argoCD creds are not required for our
```

> # current testing suite, so you can export dummy values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# current testing suite, you have to minimally export dummy values
```

> # here too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# for the tests to pass
```

```

**NOTE**: It will exit with an error if `tests/.venv` does not exist or if `uv`/`pytest` is not available after activating the `.venv`.

## Running CI tests locally

The CI pipeline (`make ci-install && make ci-tests`) spins up a local [Kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) cluster, deploys RHDH via Helm, and then runs the same E2E suite. You can reproduce this locally before pushing.

### Additional prerequisites

- `kind` v0.23.0+
- `helm` v3+
- `kubectl`
- `openssl`
- `sudo` access (the script writes to `/etc/hosts`)

### Create `scripts/private-env`

> `ci-setup.sh` automatically sources `scripts/private-env` when it exists. The file is gitignored (`*private-env`). Create it with the variables below — all are required unless marked optional.

Reviewer: we don't have to list all of them, but how about give an indication that any `*GITHUB*` and `*GITOPS*`  and `*ARGO*` env vars will be ignored 

and as such, one should need to keep separate `private-env` files for kind vs. ocp clusters

Author: Tried to rework the docs so they are a bit more clear -> here: [0e99a9f](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-rolling-demo-gitops/pull/198/commits/0e99a9f6ad81c7d3c0d16fbc4a5cc33f8ace2ea9)

export VLLM_API_KEY="<api-key>"
export VALIDATION_PROVIDER="<provider>"           # e.g. "openai"
export VALIDATION_MODEL_NAME="<model>"

# Lightspeed PostgreSQL
export LIGHTSPEED_POSTGRES_USER="<user>"
export LIGHTSPEED_POSTGRES_PASSWORD="<password>"
export LIGHTSPEED_POSTGRES_DB="<db-name>"

# Notebooks
export NOTEBOOKS_QUERY_PROVIDER_ID="<provider-id>"
export NOTEBOOKS_QUERY_MODEL="<model>"

# ArgoCD
export ARGOCD_USER="<user>"                       # e.g. "admin"
export ARGOCD_PASSWORD="<password>"
export ARGOCD_HOSTNAME="<argocd-host>"
export ARGOCD_API_TOKEN="<api-token>"

# E2E test identity
export ROLLING_DEMO_TEST_USERNAME="<keycloak-username>"
export RHDH_ENVIRONMENT="ci"
```

### Run

```bash
make ci-install   # creates Kind cluster and deploys RHDH (~20 min)
make ci-tests     # runs the Playwright E2E suite
```

To tear down the cluster afterwards:

```bash
kind delete cluster --name rhdh-ci
```

## GitHub repository secrets

The CI PR check workflow (`.github/workflows/ci-pr-check.yaml`) reads the same variables from GitHub Actions secrets. Add the following secrets in **Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions**:

| Secret | Description |

> |---|---|

Reviewer: over in the new `ci-pr-check.yaml` I see at line https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-rolling-demo-gitops/pull/198/changes#diff-10d240a0df65f87e423ed1a43e9d5ead82041be82d31cbcf9fe68c1aa9cbd162R36 some new env vars like `GH_APP_APP_ID` that look the same as our `GITHUB*` env vars .... don't we need to populate the new `GH_*` env vars?  And as such, mention somewhere .... perhaps this section

Author: In general I had to switch to GH_* as GITHUB_* is not permitted in github actions. However locally we should be able to use the GITHUB_* ones. I have added more details in: [0e99a9f](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-rolling-demo-gitops/pull/198/commits/0e99a9f6ad81c7d3c0d16fbc4a5cc33f8ace2ea9)

export GITHUB_APP_PRIVATE_KEY="<pem-key>"
export GITOPS_GIT_ORG="<github-org>"

# ArgoCD credentials
# For local Kind cluster testing, set values from

> # "ArgoCD Devcluster Test User Creds" in the team Bitwarden.

Reviewer: can you merge the old comment content with the new one
i.e. keep your new explanation, but then say if your testing 
against an openshift deployment, just leave them empty or employ
dummy values

Author: @gabemontero does [459a893](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-rolling-demo-gitops/pull/198/commits/459a8932a6a6c536a9387d2b1c6b65f419f6bedc) looks good to you?

## Troubleshooting

- **Test suite fails on first `test_navbar.py` test**: If Kind cluster is created successfully but then your tests are failing when an authenticated session is required (e.g. `test_navbar` which is the first group of tests ran where auth is required), you have most probably haven't exported correctly the variables mentioned in [Prepare `scripts/private-env`](#prepare-scriptsprivate-env).

> - **Tests hit wrong RHDH URL (e.g. your OCP cluster's hostname instead of `rhdh-ci.apps.testing`)**: This usually means `RHDH_BASE_URL` was set to a custom value before running `make ci-tests`. The CI scripts derive `RHDH_BASE_URL` from `CI_HOSTNAME` (default: `rhdh-ci.apps.testing`). Do not set `RHDH_BASE_URL` manually when running local CI tests — unset it and let `run-tests.sh` compute it. Note that `RHDH_CLUSTER_ROUTER_BASE` (used for OCP deployments) does **not** affect the local Kind CI hostname; `clusterRouterBase` is fixed to `apps.testing` in `ci/values-ci.yaml`.

Reviewer: curious why the new makes can't ignore / override `RHDH_BASE_URL` @thepetk 

not a blocker, but just curious

Author: the idea was to be able to run from your local -> tests against another (deployed) instance. E.g. I want to test `development` quickly from my local to see if the tests are passing.

Reviewer: can you add this clarification to the statement above ... so a future reader understands why an override / default behavior is not employed
